A WAR FOR INTERNATIONAL FREEDOM
25
Abundant materials out of our fields and our mines and our factories with which not
only to clothe and equip our own forces on land and sea but also to clothe and support
our people for whom the gallant fellows under arms can no longer work, to help clothe
and equip the armies with which we are co-operating in Europe, and to keep the looms
and manufactories there in raw material;
Coal to keep the fires going in ships at sea and in the furnaces of hundreds of
factories across the sea;
Steel out of which to make arms and ammunition both here and there;
Rails for worn-out railways back of the fighting fronts;
Locomotives and rolling stock to take the place of those every day going to pieces;
Everything with which the people of England and France and Italy and Russia have
usually supplied themselves, but cannot now afford the men, the materials, or the
machinery to make.
I particularly appeal to the farmers of the South to plant abundant foodstuffs as well
as cotton. They can show their patriotism in no better or more convincing way than by
resisting the great temptation of the present price of cotton and helping, helping upon a
large scale, to feed the nation and the peoples everywhere who are fighting for their
liberties and for our own. The variety of their crops will be the visible measure of their
comprehension of their national duty.
The response was amazing in its enthusiastic and general compliance. No autocracy
issuing a ukase could have been obeyed so explicitly. Not only did the various classes of
workers and individuals observe the President's suggestions to the letter, but they yielded
up individual right after right in order that the war work of the government might be
expedited. Extraordinary powers and functions were granted by the people through
Congress, and it was not until peace was declared that these rights and powers returned
to the people.
These governmental activities ceased functioning after the war:
Food administration;
Fuel administration;
Espionage act;
War trade board;
Alien property custodian (with extension of time for certain duties);
Agricultural stimulation;
Housing construction (except for shipbuilders);
Control of telegraphs and telephones;
Export control.
26
HISTORY OF THE WORLD WAR
These functions were extended:
Control over railroads: to cease within twenty-one months after the proclamation
of peace.
The War Finance Corporation: to cease to function six months after the war, with
further time for liquidation.
The Capital Issues Committee: to terminate in six months after the peace
proclamation.
The Aircraft Board: to end in six months after peace was proclaimed; and the
government operation of ships, within five years after the war was officially
ended.
President Wilson, generally acclaimed as the leader of the world's democracies,
phrased for civilization the arguments against autocracy in the great peace conference
after the war. The President headed the American delegation to that conclave of world
re-construction. With him as delegates to the conference were Robert Lansing, Secretary
of State; Henry White, former Ambassador to France and Italy; Edward M. House and
General Tasker H. Bliss.
Representing American Labor at the International Labor conference held in Paris
simultaneously with the Peace Conference were Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor; William Green, secretary-treasurer of the United Mine
Workers of America; John R. Alpine, president of the Plumbers' Union; James Duncan,
president of the International Association of Granite Cutters; Frank Duffy, president of
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, and Frank Morrison, secretary of the
American Federation of Labor.
Estimating the share of each Allied nation in the great victory, mankind will
conclude that the heaviest cost in proportion to prewar population and treasure was paid
by the nations that first felt the shock of war, Belgium, Serbia, Poland and France. All
four were the battle-grounds of huge armies, oscillating in a bloody frenzy over once
fertile fields and once prosperous towns.
Belgium, with a population of 8,000,000, had a casualty list of more than 350,000;
France, with its casualties of 4,000,000 out of a population (including its colonies) of
90,000,000, is really the martyr nation of the world. Her gallant poilus showed the world
how cheerfully men may die in defense of home and liberty. Huge Russia, including
hapless Poland, had a casualty list of 7,000,000 out of its entire population of
180,000,000. The United States out of a population of 110,000,000 had a casualty list of
236,117 for nineteen months of war; of these 53,169 were killed or died of disease;
179,625 were wounded; and 3,323 prisoners or missing.