Th e

Guide to

Beginner s Auto
Maintenance & Repair
Jeff Crawford

Presented by:

About the Author: Jeff Crawford has over 20 years of experience as a mechanic and
auto technician. He has seen all aspects of the auto repair industry from small shops to
large dealerships. He is the co-owner of Crawford s Auto Repair in Mesa, Arizona
85210. www.CrawfordsAutoService.com.

The Crawford s Auto Repair Guide to Beginner s Auto Maintenance & Repair
By Jeff Crawford, Crawford s Auto Repair
Contributing Author: Rex Kimball, Mirex Marketing

Text copyright © Jeff Crawford, Rex Kimball
All rights reserved for printed and all digital formats. The following license is granted in
PDF:
This book is available in PDF for free, and it can be reproduced, shared and sold for
profit royalty-free in PDF, but it a cannot be changed or adapted in content or format
without the authors consent. Go go http://www.crawfordsautoservice.com/crawfordsauto-repair-guide-free-ebook/ to download for free.
Many of the images in this book are protected by copyright as cited. Some images are
in the creative commons with free use licenses. Some are in the public domain or
presumed to be in the public domain. Claims of any inaccuracies should be brought to
the authors attention to have the images in question removed from this book.
Crawford s Auto, Crawford s Automotive, Crawfords Auto Service, Crawford s Auto
Repair, CrawfordsAutoService.com, and the Crawford s Auto Repair log are trademarks
of Crawford s Auto Repair in Mesa, AZ 85210
Mirex Marketing and MirexMarketing.com are trademarks of Mirex, LLC in Arizona.
All other copyrights and trademarks are property of their respective owners.
This book is for informational purposes only. The authors are not liable for any accident
or injury that may occur when working with motor vehicles. By proceeding to read this
book, you agree to these terms.

This book is intended for a general audience. Also, Boy Scouts will find it useful for
completing the Automotive Maintenance merit badge. Boy Scouts are welcome to come
to the shop for assistance. This is not an official publication of the Boy Scouts of
America.
The content in this book is also taught as live lessons to the local community in Mesa,
AZ. Go to http://crawfordsautoservice.com/free-automotive-classes/ for details.

Contents:
Chapter 1: Safety Rules & Introduction to Tools . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Chapter 2: General Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Chapter 3: Dashboard Indicator Lights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Chapter 4: Tires . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Chapter 5: The Internal Combustion Engine & Engine Oil . . . . .43
Chapter 6: Cooling System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Chapter 7: Fuel System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
Chapter 8: Electrical System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
Chapter 9: Drive Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Chapter 10: Brakes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64
Chapter 11: The Auto Repair Industry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
Chapter 12: How to Buy a Car . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 1: Safety Rules & Introduction to Tools
Automotive Maintenance Safety:
Automobiles are big and heavy with lots of mechanical moving parts. In the right
environment a vehicle can be maintained and repaired safely and effectively. However,
in the wrong environment repairing a vehicle can be dangerous. Follow the tips in this
chapter to stay safe.
Basic Shop Rules:
 Never work alone
 Wear eye protection
 Avoid loose clothing or hair
 Stay clear of moving parts of a running vehicle
 Be aware of hazardous chemicals and keep a flushing station nearby for eyes
and skin (at home this could be a bathroom sink or shower).
 Keep proper clean up materials in case of an accidental spill (see below)
 Don t mix your work space with other cluttering materials such as home storage,
garden tools and other items.
 Never go under a vehicle that is elevated improperly (the jack to change the tire
is NOT sufficient, see more details below)
 Know where the fire extinguisher is and have a planned exit route. The fire
extinguisher should be kept in working order and in a place with easy access.
 Keep an emergency response number handy and posted clearly where others
can see it.
 Keep an emergency kit in your vehicle for roadside emergencies or repairs.
 Consult your vehicle owner s manual for specific safety rules regarding your
vehicle
Proper Clothing and Hair:
Always wear safety goggles for eye protection. Vehicle repair involves the use of many
types of fluids which can splatter and eye contact should be avoided.

Eye protection
Image credit: CC-BY-Glenn McKechnie

2

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

One of my first bosses didn't have any feeling sensation in his right hand. He couldn t
feel touch or pain in that hand. He was working alone one night and his hand got caught
in the fan belt while the engine was running. He was conscious long enough to get the
engine to stop running with his other hand, but his right was stuck and he couldn t get
out on his own. He eventually lost consciousness and lay there bleeding for three hours
by himself. Bleeding this long could easily have resulted in death. Luckily he only lost
his fingers. While it was his hand and not a piece of clothing that got caught, the same
principle applies. If a piece of clothing or hair gets caught it won t be long before a hand
or face gets dragged in with it.
Do not wear ties or any loose, hanging clothing. Do not let pony tails down or leave any
loose strands of hair. Bundle your hair up if it s long. Do not wear necklaces, rings or
other jewelry. Some may remember Mr. T, the Mohawk-bearing muscle man from the
1980s sitcom The A-Team. He often wore about 50 lbs. of jewelry and frequently
worked on motor vehicles. This was a blatant violation of mechanic safety rules. Only a
person who can get thrown out of an airplane, flip a jeep, and come out of machine gun
fire without a scratch can work on engines that way.
Ideally the best clothing for performing automotive maintenance and repairs is a
mechanic s jumpsuit. It s durable, comfortable, there are pockets for tools, and there is
nothing loose that can get caught and pulled into moving parts.
Avoid slips, falls and hazardous chemicals:
Hazardous chemicals can include gasoline, oil, coolant, and other vehicle fluids. Avoid
contact with eyes and mouth. If you ever have contact with eyes then flush with cool
water for several minutes. Some car fluids can be acidic, such as battery fluid. If you
ever start to feel burning, then flush with cool water for several minutes. If burning
continues then seek medical attention.
Proper clean up materials include shop rags and oil dri , which is simply kitty litter
without the fragrance. When a spill occurs you should spread enough oil dri over the
spill to absorb the entire spill. Then sweep it up with a broom and dustpan and throw it
away.

3

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Oil Dri

Avoid clutter in your workspace that can act as fall hazards. Keep storage and nonautomotive tools in other areas. Also, clean up tools after you re finished.
Proper Lifting Points:
A motor vehicle is a 4,000+ pound piece of machinery that could fall on top of you.
Never go under a vehicle that is not elevated properly. If the vehicle is elevated properly
then there should not be any problem.
Vehicles should only be lifted at their proper lifting points. The proper lifting points on a
vehicle are the locations on the vehicle where you place the jack to lift the vehicle and
where the jack stands are placed to keep the vehicle elevated. Lifting points are
different on every vehicle. The owner s manual will specify where the lifting points are
for your specific vehicle. Often vehicles have lift points marked on the running board or
rocker panel. There are a couple of disastrous events that can happen during an
attempt to raise a vehicle without using the proper lifting points. The weight of the car
pressing down and the jack pressing up can damage the body of the vehicle. Or worse,
the jack could tip or slide while a person is underneath the vehicle.

4

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

An illustration which demonstrates vehicle lift points for a sample vehicle; consult the owner s manual for
the lift points of a specific vehicle.

Any vehicle that has a frame can be lifted by the frame. When the front is lifted the jack
is usually placed under the suspension cross member. When lifting the rear the jack is
placed under the axle if it has a solid axle. If it doesn t have a solid axle then it should
be lifted by the factory recommended lift points.
Vehicles should always be on firm, level ground. If the ground is not level then the car
may roll and tip the jack. A jack or a jack stand can also slip out or fail to hold the
vehicle in an elevated position when the ground is not firm, such as on a dirt road or
when there is ice or snow.
There are different types of jacks and jack stands. A jack is used to raise the vehicle
either by hydraulic pumping or hand cranking. A jack stand is used to keep the vehicle
elevated and has a firm square base. One type of jack that people are most familiar with
is the one that is included with the spare tire kit. This is to be used only for changing the
tire and it is not sufficient for keeping a vehicle elevated when working under the
vehicle. The jack used for changing tires often has a four point rectangular base. This is
not as stable as a square base.

Hydraulic jack with hand-pump mechanism

5

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

When minor repairs are being performed, such as changing a tire, it is permissible to
raise just one corner of the vehicle, or the front or the rear. The vehicle is first raised
with a jack and then placed on jack stands. (Do not go under the vehicle while it is
elevated by a jack). The vehicle should be equally balanced on the jack stands.
A mechanic s shop may have industry jacks or hydraulic lifts. These can be used to
raise the vehicle and keep it elevated. These lifts can raise the entire vehicle at the
same time. When lifting the entire vehicle the center of gravity should be positioned
evenly with the lifting hoist arms. This is evident when the vehicle is raised and all tires
lift off the ground at the same time. Most vehicles are front-heavy due to the engine
block. However, many work trucks are balanced to have the center of gravity in the
middle.

Hydraulic lift with hoist arms that raise the vehicle on its lifting points. The lift consists of two vertical blue
beams and four white hoist arms. Two white hoist arms on the other side of the vehicle are not seen in
the pictures.
Image credit: CC-BY-ANT Berezhnyi on Wikipedia

Another hydraulic lift that raises the car on its tires

More instructions will be given for lifting a corner of the vehicle to replace a spare tire in
Chapter 4. The owner s manual should be consulted any time when lifting the vehicle.
6

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Emergency Preparedness and Response:
In an emergency, preparedness and a quick response can save a life. Although it is
relatively rare, a fire can occur when working on motor vehicles. Some vehicle fluids are
flammable. They can combust with excess heat or when a faulty electrical wire creates
a spark. Keep a working fire extinguisher in an accessible place. All shop workers
should know where the fire extinguisher is. An ABC or tri-class fire extinguisher is
appropriate for auto repair shops. Also, have a plan for an emergency escape if a fire
becomes uncontrollable.
Keep an emergency response number posted clearly where everyone can see it.
Keep a first aid kit handy for minor injuries, like superficial cuts and scratches.
Have a flushing station nearby for any vehicle fluid contact with eyes and mouth, or with
skin if the fluid is acidic.

Introduction to Tools Used by Mechanics:
A commercial mechanic s shop will usually have industry-standard tools, such as a
torque wrench, hydraulic lifts, pneumatic (air-operated) tools, and electronic devices that
connect with the vehicle s computer to receive diagnostics. However, a startup repair
shop or a highly proficient mechanic at home could get most jobs done with a $200 set
of tools if needed.
The most common tools in a mechanic s set include the following:
Flashlight. A flashlight is one of the most-used tools in an auto repair shop. It helps the
mechanic see anywhere for visual inspections, maintenance and repairs.

Flashlight

Socket sets and wrenches. These have two different measurement systems. One is
metric and one SAE (or standard). The metric system has measurements in millimeters
(mm). SAE has measurements in inches or fractions of inches (1/4, 5/16, etc.).
Wrenches often have an open end and an opposite box end.
7

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Socket Ratchet Wrench
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Heron2 on Wikipedia

Wrench set
These wrenches have an open end and a box end
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Ildar Sagdejev on Wikipedia

Pneumatic (air-powered) wrench
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Bushytails on Wikipedia

8

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Oil Filter Wrench
Has a prying mechanism like other wrenches but one end has a belt that wraps around the object being
unscrewed, which is much bigger in diameter than the regular bolts and hex-head screws that other
wrenches are used for.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Three-quarter-ten on Wikipedia

4-way lug wrench
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Steffen Heinz Caronna

Screwdrivers, both Philips head (the cross-section looks like a cross or plus sign) and
flat tipped (or slotted). When using screwdrivers, try to match the size of the screwdriver
head with the screw. Also try to avoid stripping the head of the screw (this has occurred
when you can firmly turn the screwdriver against the head of the screw continually and
the screw never rotates).

Screwdriver set

9

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Screwdriver tips showing Philips (left) and flat or slotted (right)

Jacks. These are used to lift the vehicle. Some are rotated by hand. Other higher-end
jacks are pumped. Some are hydraulic.

Hydraulic jack
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Nerijp on Wikipedia

Spare tire kit with a spare tire, lug wrench and tire jack. The tire jack is already placed under the lifting
point and partially cranked.
Image credit: CC-BY-Kurt Nordstrom

10

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Jack Stands. These are used to keep the vehicle elevated after it has been raised with
the jack. They have a wide square base and come to an apex where the car rests on
them.

Two jack stands, the lever shown on these stands is not used to raise the vehicle but to adjust the height
of the stands to keep the vehicle raised.

Pry bar. This can occasionally be used to tension a belt.

Two pry bars, different sizes

Hammer. This can be any type of hammer and it is used on occasion, such as when
freeing a stuck drum or rotor from its hub.

Hammer

11

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Test Light. This used to test fuses (see Chapter 2).

Test light

Funnel. Used to fill vehicle fluids.

Funnel (yellow) for car fluids
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Dvortygirl on Wikipedia

12

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Drain Pan. Used to collect vehicle fluids when changing fluids and filters or flushing
systems.

Draining oil

Tire Pressure Gauge. Used to measure tire pressure.

Tire pressure gauge.

Battery Tester. Used to check the battery to see if it is charged.

Battery tester

13

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Computer Scanner. Connects to the vehicle computer to receive diagnostic trouble
codes (DTCs)

Auto scanner which receives DTCs from the vehicle s computer
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Florian Schaffer

There are many other tools that can be used. But these are the most basic.
Now that we ve reviewed safety rules and gone over the tools used in a mechanic s
shop, you re ready to continue to the next chapter -- General Maintenance.

14

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 2: General Maintenance
This chapter on general maintenance may be one of the most applicable for the
average person to care for his or her own vehicle. We ll discuss the vehicle owner s
manual, vehicle fluids, fuses, belts and hoses, vehicle lighting, and the air filter.
Vehicle Owner s Manual
All vehicles are different and the owner s manual for each make and model is the most
useful reference for maintenance and repair of that specific vehicle. Despite the fact that
it can often look thick, complicated, and boring on the surface, vehicle owners should
become familiar and comfortable with the owner s manual. They re not so bad once
they re finally opened. Almost any topic regarding your vehicle s maintenance can be
found in the index.

Owner s Manual

The owner s manual will have a maintenance chart. The chart will include such
information as when to change the oil, rotate tires, replace the air filter, inspect fuel cap
and lines, change other fluids (transmission fluid, etc.) and other maintenance issues.
Your vehicle may have different maintenance requirements at 30,000 miles, 90,000
miles, 150,000 miles and at other intervals as indicated specifically in your owner s
manual.
Being familiar with the maintenance chart in your owner s manual can help you save
money when taking your car to the mechanic for maintenance checks. Sometimes the
repair shop will suggest additional services that aren t necessary.
15

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

If you don t have the owner s manual for your car then you may be able to find one
online by using Google or another search engine. Search the website for the make of
the vehicle. You could also try your local library.
Vehicle Fluids:
Vehicle fluids include brake fluid, engine oil, coolant, power steering fluid, windshield
washer fluid, transmission fluid and battery fluid. Fluid level information and the location
of each fluid reservoir can be found in the owner s manual for your particular vehicle.
(Any images in this chapter are illustrative of one example and your vehicle may look
different).
Brake Fluid: On most vehicles the reservoir for brake fluid is clear. You can check the
fluid without removing the cap. There will be a marking on the reservoir that indicates
minimum and maximum level. You ll want to make sure that the level is between those
two marks. This fluid should never need to be topped off during maintenance. Low fluid
is an indication of a problem. If the fluid is low then you may want to bring it to a
mechanic, depending on your own skill level. Most vehicles have a dashboard light that
illuminates when the brake fluid is low. (In Chapter 3 we ll go over all the dashboard
lights, and in Chapter 10 we ll go over brakes).

A brake fluid reservoir. Notice the MAX and MIN markings.
Image credit: CC-BY-Frettie on Wikipedia

16

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Engine Oil. Engine oil should be checked each time the vehicle is refueled (i.e. each
time you go to the gas station). Most engines, but not all, have a dipstick to indicate the
oil level. Typically the handle is yellow. Follow these steps to check the oil:
 Turn the engine off.
 Remove the dipstick.
 Wipe off the end of the dipstick with a rag or paper towel.
 Put the dipstick back in.
 Take it out to look at the level at the tip
The stick will have marks on it. The add mark typically indicates one quart low. If an
engine is leaking oil then the price of repairs can vary depending on which repair is
needed and the make and model of the vehicle.

Oil dipstick (above) and oil level on a dipstick (below)
Image credits: both CC-BY-SA-Dvortygirl on Wikipedia

17

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Coolant: Never open the cooling system if the engine is hot. If you ve just been
driving then don t open it. After you think the engine has cooled then you can lightly
touch the radiator cap to test it. If it s still hot, then don t open it. Opening the radiator
cap while the engine is still hot can shoot a six-foot geyser into the air and burn any skin
it contacts. The best time to check the coolant is in the morning before the car is driven.

Coolant. Notice the green color; coolant can actually be any color (pink, orange, transparent, red, etc.)
Image credit: CC-BY-EvelynGiggles on Wikipedia

A low coolant level indicates a possible leak which should be investigated. A very small
amount of evaporation of coolant can occur over time. As a rule, if you need more than
one quart of coolant, that indicates a problem.
If the coolant is low then it needs to be replenished with the proper type of coolant and
mixture. Consult the owner s manual for the proper type of coolant. The proper mixture
is a 50/50 ratio of coolant and distilled water. It is important to use distilled water
because the impurities in other water would circulate through the system and ruin the
system over time. Coolant can be purchased pre-mixed in a 50/50 solution if desired.

18

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

50/50 pre-diluted coolant. Image credit: CC-BY-dno1967 on Wikipedia

Power Steering Fluid: There may be a clear reservoir for power steering fluid. If there
is, then it can be checked the same way as the brake fluid described above. If the
power steering fluid is not in a clear reservoir then it will have a dipstick. Refer to the
owner s manual for the location of the reservoir and the type of fluid that should be
used. Low power steering fluid is an indication of a leak and it should be investigated. At
that point the driver may also notice changes in steering performance.

Power steering reservoir (black tank). Notice how the cap is labeled.

19

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Windshield Washer Fluid. There may be a clear reservoir or a dipstick for windshield
washer fluid. Refer to the owner s manual for the location. If you live or travel in cold
climates, below 32 degrees, you need to make sure that you use washer fluid with
antifreeze.

Windshield washer fluid
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Hamedog on Wikipedia

Transmission Fluid. Refer to the owner s manual for the location of the transmission
fluid. Some vehicles have a dipstick but many new vehicles do not have one. In some
vehicles you have to go underneath the vehicle to check this fluid. If the fluid is low, then
there is a leak and it should be investigated. The fluid should also be red. If it is black
and/or has a burnt smell then there is a problem with the transmission.

New transmission fluid, red in color

20

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Battery Fluid and Terminals: If the battery is clear then you can look at the level of the
fluid. Most modern vehicles do not have clear batteries. Any corrosion or signs of leaks
around the battery are indications of a problem. Corrosion can be a green or white
powdery substance. Don t ever allow corrosion to come in contact with the skin or eyes
because this is an acid and it will burn. If corrosion is present at all, the battery may
need to be replaced or there could be a problem with the charging system. Excessive
discharging of the battery without the engine running (i.e. listening to the radio, keeping
the cab lights on or using any accessory with the engine off) can cause the battery to
overheat, which leads to early battery failure and leakage of battery acid. If the battery
fluid is low, only use distilled water to refill it. Never add acid to a battery.
The presence of corrosion indicates a problem that should be addressed. However, as
a temporary fix, you can clean off the corrosion to get the car started. Start by rinsing off
the corrosion with the garden hose. Then disconnect the terminals starting with the
negative terminal first, then the positive terminal. Use a mixture of baking soda and
water or battery terminal cleaner to rinse off the terminals and battery posts. You ll see
the baking soda reacting with the corrosion to form fizz and bubbles. Use a wire brush
or scraper (depending on the type of terminal) to clean the inside of the terminal and
battery posts. Then rinse again with more water. Once the terminals and battery posts
are clean, reattach the terminals starting with the positive terminal first, then the
negative terminal. It is not sufficient just to clean off the corrosion. Again, the presence
of corrosion indicates a problem that should be addressed.

Car battery

21

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Fuses
Consult the owner s manual to locate the fuse boxes in your vehicle. They can be
anywhere in the vehicle. Modern vehicles use blade type fuses. The part of the fuse that
you ll see initially is plastic and color-coded. When the fuse is removed it can have a
similar shape to a square letter C with the arms of the C being metal and the back of
the C being the color-coded plastic. The color coding system for fuses has been used
since the early 1980s. Older fuses are made of glass tubes. The color coding for
modern fuses is universal and indicates the amperage of the fuse.
Violet 3 Amp
Pink 4 Amp
Orange - 5 Amp
Red - 10 Amp
Blue - 15 Amp
Yellow - 20 Amp
Clear - 25 Amp
Green - 30 Amp
Orange 40 Amp
(and many others)

Blade type fuses used in modern vehicles. Most of them have a C shape (or E shape, facing down in
the image). In a blown fuse, the S or upside down V s in the middle will be broken (called the element).
The image shows the top view of each fuse just above each side view; notice that each top has metal
contacts that are not covered by colored plastic.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Havarhen on Wikipedia.

Glass tube fuse used in older vehicles
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Aka on Wikipedia

22

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

There are two ways to test the fuse: one is by removing the fuse to look at it and the
other is to use a test light.
When testing it by removing it, simply pull it directly out and look through the colorcoded plastic to see if the element (connection in the center) is intact. If it s open, then
the fuse is burnt out. Sometimes you ll also see a black singe that makes the
transparent plastic more opaque. Never remove more than one fuse at a time. This
helps to keep track of where the fuse was pulled from and permits easy replacement of
the fuse in the correct place. If multiple fuses happen to get pulled at the same time
then the size and placement of each fuse can be found in the owner s manual.
An easier and faster way to test the fuses is with a testing light since the fuses don t
have to be removed. The testing light looks like an electric screwdriver with a pointed
tip. The wire end, or black end of the testing light must be grounded to a clean,
unpainted metal surface of the vehicle. If you can t find a place on the body of the
vehicle, then you can always ground it to the negative terminal of the battery. The point
of the testing light is placed on the metal contacts of the fuse. There is a metal contact
on each side of the fuse s color-coded plastic (on the back of the C ). Upon contact the
display will indicate if the fuse is still good.

Test light

Not all fuses have power all the time. So the test should be performed with the key
turned to the on position in the ignition and the headlights turned on (the engine does
not need to be running). Even with the key and headlights turned on, there is one other
fuse that will not have power, which is the crank fuse. The crank fuse only has power
when the key is turned to the crank position while starting the engine. This particular
fuse does not need to be tested unless the vehicle won t crank.

23

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Belts & Hoses

Two hoses and a belt are seen in this image
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Kolossos on Wikipedia

If a belt squeals after starting the engine or while driving then this indicates a problem
with belt tension. Most modern vehicles have automatic belt tensioners which keep the
belt at the appropriate tension. Checking the belt tension varies by make and model.
Modern vehicles only have one belt, but older vehicles have an individual belt for each
accessory of the engine (i.e. power steering, air conditioning, and alternator). Consult a
workshop manual for the proper methods for checking belt tension. (The workshop
manual or service manual is different from the owner s manual and may be found at the
local public library or ordered online). Belts can also be checked by visual inspection
and touch for signs of cracking, fraying, or glazing. Glazing means the drive surface of
the belt will be shiny.
Hoses can be checked visually and by touch for signs of cracking, swelling, or leaks. If
the engine is cool, then squeeze the hose to check for softness. If there is any variation
from hose to hose within the same vehicle then that could indicate a problem.
A cooling system pressure tester can be a useful tool to pressurize the cooling system
and check for leaks or swollen hoses. This tool be rented from an auto parts store and
should come with instructions for use. You ll attach it in place of the radiator cap and
hand-pump it as you watch the gauge. Never exceed the indicated pressure that is
written on the top of the radiator cap. Most modern cars have a limit of 16 psi. Again, do
not open the radiator cap if the engine is still hot. (See also Chapter 6 for more
information on the cooling system).
Vehicle Lighting
Vehicle lighting includes instrument panel lighting, warning indicator lights, left and right
turn signals, brake lights, hazard lights (which have a distinct circuit from the turn
signals even though the display is in the same place), headlights and tail lights, front
marker lights, the license plate light, and lights for the cab and trunk. Checking vehicle
lighting goes quicker and smoother with two people, and in the case of the brake lights
two people are required.

24

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

The instrument lighting is all of the backlighting for the instrument cluster (all the
gauges, speedometer, fuel gauge and others). The instrument lighting can be checked
by turning on the headlights at night or in a dim garage. Check to see that all the
gauges are clearly visible. There should not be any dark spots on the cluster.

Dashboard showing gauges and warning indicator lights
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Tagaz Vega

The warning indicator lights on the dashboard include the brake light, oil light, check
engine light, anti-lock brake (ABS) light, airbag light, tire pressure monitor, engine
temperature light, and others -- all of which can be found in the owner s manual. All of
the warning indicator lights will turn on for a set amount of time (about a minute, but
varies per vehicle) when you turn the key to the on position without cranking the
engine. Once the engine is running, none of these lights should be on (even the seat
belt light should be off, indicating that you re wearing your seat belt). If one is on, then it
indicates a problem with its correlating system. The number of lights and types of lights
will vary by make and model. Some vehicles have features that others don t, such as
traction control. (We ll discuss indicator lights in detail in Chapter 3).
Exterior lighting is checked with the key turned to the on position in the ignition (or with
the engine running, but it s not necessary to have the engine running just to check the
lights). Turn on the headlights. Check all four corners of the vehicle. On both sides (right
and left, or driver side and passenger side) the same number of bulbs should be
illuminated. There should be two front marker lights that are orange, two tail lights, and
a license plate light.

Rear lights of a vehicle with the brake lights illuminated.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Paultantk on Wikipedia

25

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Turn the left turn signal on. Check the left front and left rear of the vehicle for blinking
lights. Some vehicles have more than one bulb for the turn signal and some even
include a signal in the side rearview mirrors. Be sure every applicable bulb is
illuminating. Some vehicles have a cornering lamp, which is a clear lamp on the front of
the vehicle which illuminates corners while turning. This should be illuminated but it will
not blink.
Turn the right turn signal on. Check the right front and right rear of the vehicle for
blinking lights. Be sure all applicable bulbs are illuminating. Check the cornering lamp if
applicable.
When the turn signal is on and the indicator is blinking fast or not blinking at all, these
are indicators of a failed bulb.
Brake lights require two people for inspection. One person presses the brake pedal
while the other person checks the rear of the vehicle to make sure all the brake lights
are illuminating, including the high mount brake light in the rear window if the vehicle is
equipped with one.
Activate the hazard switch. Check to make sure that there are flashing lights with an
equal number of bulbs on all four corners. The hazard lights are wired separately from
the turn signals, so it is important to check the hazard lights even if the turn signals have
been checked.
Air Filter
Consult the owner s manual for the location of the air filter. Remove the air filter. Inspect
for visual signs of dirt and debris. Hold the filter up to a fluorescent light; you should be
able to see light coming through the filter. If there is any doubt then change it. It s cheap
preventative maintenance and it helps preserve fuel economy. (The air filter is
discussed more in Chapter 7).

Various air filters.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA- Maly LOLek on Wikipedia

26

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 3: Dashboard Indicator Lights
The instrument panel on your dashboard has multiple gauges and indicators. These
may include the fuel gauge, speedometer, tachometer, oil pressure, and engine
temperature. Most are self-explanatory-- the speedometer measures your speed, etc.
The one that may not be self-explanatory is the tachometer, which indicates engine
speed in revolutions per minute (RPM). It often has a red zone which you should never
exceed.
In the previous chapter we checked all the vehicle lighting which included the
dashboard symbols. Now we ll discuss what these symbols mean. As always, a better
resource to learn the meaning of each dashboard symbol for a specific vehicle is the
owner s manual for that vehicle. The ones that are included in each vehicle will vary by
make and model.
Dashboard lights can be red, orange (or yellow) and blue. Generally when a red light
comes on while driving, it means you should immediately pull over safely and call a tow
truck. However there are some exceptions some lights which are generally red can be
yellow or orange, and some red lights can be fixed immediately (seat belt light put
your seat belt on, door ajar light close all the doors). Orange or yellow lights generally
indicate that there is a problem with your vehicle, but it is safe to drive to a repair facility
or your home residence to investigate further. This also has some exceptions. It is
always best to consult the owner s manual for a particular vehicle.
The following are the general symbols:

Airbag Light or Supplemental Restraint Warning Light: Red, Orange or Yellow.
Whenever this light illuminates the air bag system senses a problem, which could be a
safety issue. It doesn t necessarily mean that the airbags will not work. The airbags
might or might not still deploy during an accident. The light means that there is a part of
the airbag system that may not work.

Anti-Lock Brakes Light: Orange or yellow light. This indicates a failure in the anti-lock
brake (ABS) system and anti-lock brakes are disabled. The purpose of the ABS is to
allow steering control of a vehicle while braking and to avoid skidding during a panic
stop. If this light is on, then normal conventional brake function will continue. If it s on in
the event of a panic stop then the vehicle will skid. Have the vehicle serviced.

27

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Brake Light: Red light, immediately pull over safely and have the vehicle towed (or
disengage the parking brake if applicable). This light indicates that there is something
wrong with the brakes. There could be a low brake fluid level, there could be a hydraulic
brake failure, or the parking brake is engaged.

Change Oil Soon. Orange or yellow light. This light indicates that routine oil change and
maintenance is due. It s based on revolutions of the crankshaft, which is even more
accurate than basing routine oil changes on mileage.

Check Engine Light: Red or yellow light. There is a problem with the vehicle emissions
and the vehicle s computer will have diagnostic trouble codes (DTCs) which will be
retrieved when the vehicle is inspected. The light may come on and then off. If there are
any performance issues with the way the vehicle is driving, then pull over and have it
towed. If the light comes on and stays on, or comes on and then flashes during
acceleration, then immediately pull over safely and have it towed to a shop. Don t
confuse the check engine light with the service vehicle soon light below.

Door Ajar Indicator Light: Red light. One of the vehicle doors is open. Close the open
door before proceeding to drive. There may also be a separate light for the trunk.

Glowplug Indicator Light: This light is only seen in vehicles with diesel engines. The
glow plug is a device that is used to help get the diesel engine started.

High Beam Indicator or Brights. Usually blue, but can be red on older vehicles. This
indicates that your brights are on.

28

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Low Coolant Level Light: Red, Orange or yellow light. This light indicates that the engine
coolant level is low, which could be due to a leak. It is still safe to drive as long as the
engine temperature light is not on. In some vehicles the first symbol above, the
thermometer symbol, can also be a temperature light. (Remember from Chapter 2 that
the coolant level should not be checked while the engine is hot). Some vehicles can
have a blue thermometer symbol. Consult the owner s manual for its description.

Low Fuel Light: Yellow or Orange. This light indicates that fuel is low. It could also be a
simple round light that illuminates when the fuel gauge is nearing empty.

Low Oil Level Light: Yellow or Orange. The oil level is low. Refill the oil as soon as
possible and bring the vehicle to a shop to see why it was low.

Low Oil Pressure or Engine Oil Pressure Light: Red light (immediately pull over safely).
Once you pull over you could check your oil level and add oil if it s low. If the light
continues illuminated then you should have your vehicle towed to a facility. Catastrophic
engine failure will occur if the oil pressure is low. Repairs for these damages can be
very expensive.

Parking Brake Light: Red light. The parking brake is engaged or not fully released.
Release it completely before driving.

Service Vehicle Soon: Yellow light. This light may be used in conjunction with other
lights. Depending on which other lights are illuminated, there may be a problem with the
anti-lock brakes (ABS), brake hydraulic system, traction control system (TCS), or the
29

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

electronic suspension system. Don t confuse with the Service Engine Soon light, which
is one of the possible check engine lights shown above.

Temperature Light (or Hot Light). Red light (immediately pull over safely, turn off the
engine, and have it towed). This light means engine temperature has exceeded
maximum parameters. Severe engine failure will result if you continue to drive. For a
few extra moments while you re finding a safe place to pull over, you can turn on the
heater to high, which dissipates heat from the engine. If the heater does not work, it is
an indication that the coolant level is low, and that the vehicle should not be driven. The
dashboard may also have a temperature gauge which has a thermometer symbol.

Throttle Control Warning Light: Yellow or orange. In some vehicles the throttle has an
electronic control system. These lights indicate that there is a problem with the system.
Have the vehicle serviced as soon as possible. In some makes and models the wrench
light can be for other purposes. Be sure to consult the owner s manual.

Tire Pressure Warning Light: Yellow or orange. This light indicates that one or more of
the tires has fallen below 25% of the recommended pressure. Have the tires checked
soon.

Turn Signals and Hazard Light Display: These will only illuminate when a turn signal
(left or right) or the hazard lights (both simultaneously) are turned on. If one stays on
instead of blinking in rhythm or blinks slower or quicker than usual then there is a
problem. One of the bulbs may need to be replaced or there is something wrong with
the circuit.

Voltage Light. Red Light (pull over safely and get it towed). If this particular light
illuminates while you re on the freeway then you may be able to proceed to the next
30

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

exit. This light indicates that voltage is below the minimum specification and your
vehicle will stop running once the battery dies. Safely pulling over and having the
vehicle towed is even more important at night since you ll lose the use of your
headlights, which tend to drain the battery even quicker. Some of the samples are
yellow; in this case you should still treat it as a red light.

Security Light. Red, Orange or Yellow. This indicates that there is a problem in the theft
deterrent system. Sometimes the vehicle will not run if this light illuminates or blinks.

Seat Belt Light. Red light. This means that the driver and/or passenger do not have their
seat belts fastened. Put on your seatbelts before continuing to drive. There is a reason
why they show videos of people in car accidents to Driver s Ed students. They want you
to understand that when you get behind the wheel you re potentially putting people in
danger. Ideally, seat belts would be more like the harnesses used in roller coasters,
which include two shoulder straps and a middle fastening device at the chest. The
cross-over shoulder strap isn t very effective in comparison. It is designed that way for
commercial purposes and to account for common human behavior. It s easier and
quicker to have one buckle where the belt can be pulled over and fastened in one quick
motion while the person is just getting into the car. While the conventional seat belt isn t
100% efficient, it is potentially the most important safety feature of the vehicle because
it keeps the body harnessed and kept in the seat. Wear your seat belt!

Traction Control Light or Low Track Light: Yellow, orange or blue light. This indicates
drive wheel speed is higher than the coasting wheel speed. For example, if you have
front wheel drive, then the front wheel speed is higher than the rear wheel speed. This
can be useful on ice, dirt or any low-traction condition. Be careful while driving in these
conditions, especially when turning.
Once again, this is just a sample list. Your particular make and model could have other
lights and/or it won t include all the lights listed above. Consult the owner s manual.
More detailed information on warning indicator lights can be found at http://repairpal.com/warning-lightschart. Most of the images/symbols in this chapter were taken from this web page and are believed to be
in the public domain due to the universality of these symbols. Some were taken from
http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Dashboard_icons and other pages of Wikipedia.

31

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 4: Tires
This chapter is all about tires. There may be more to these rubber doughnuts than many
people realize. In this chapter we ll discuss tire specifications, how to check tire
pressure, wheel alignment, the wear bar, how to change a tire, and old tire disposal.
Tire Specifications
There are two specification sets for tires including the tire manufacturer specifications
and the vehicle manufacturer specifications. Whenever you take your car to a tire shop
to get the tires changed, they have to meet these specifications by law. You can get a
tire that goes above these specifications, but never below.
The vehicle manufacturer s specifications include speed rating, load and size. It is
located on a sticker in the driver s door jamb of the vehicle and in the vehicle owner s
manual. When buying a new tire you ll want to stick with a tire that meets the
manufacturer s specifications because that s the kind of tire that the vehicle was built to
use.

Vehicle Manufacturer specifications in the driver s door jamb of a vehicle. This indicates that the tires for
this vehicle should be inflated to 30 PSI, except the spare which is 60 PSI.

32

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

The tire manufacturer specifications include the tire size, load, pressure, temperature,
speed rating and tread wear. The tire manufacturer specifications indicate what the tire
is made to withstand. These specifications can be found on the wall of the tire itself.

Tire manufacturer specifications on the tire wall which include various tire codes.
Image credit: CC-BY-Flanker on Wikipedia

Unless you become a tire technician, you don t have to know all the numbers on the tire
or on the sticker/owner s manual because every time you get your tires replaced, the
tire shop will make sure you at least have a tire that meets the required specifications.
Probably the most important number for the common person to recognize is the
recommended tire pressure on the vehicle manufacturer s specifications on the driver s
door jamb sticker. (The tire manufacturer s specifications on the tire itself include the
maximum pressure that the tire can have, yet the maximum pressure isn t necessarily
the best pressure for the vehicle).

33

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

How to Check the Tire Pressure
In order to check tire pressure you ll need a tire pressure gauge. Gauges can be
purchased at auto parts stores and service stations (sometimes a little as $1, but could
be $3-$7). They re usually about the size of a large pen, but can come in other forms.
Sometimes a gauge is included with the air hose of the air dispensing stand at the gas
station.

Pen-sized tire pressure gauge

Air dispensing hose at a gas station with built-in pressure gauge
Round tire pressure gauge and hose

Follow these steps to check and correct the tire pressure:
 Remove the valve cap of each tire
 Align the gauge up to the valve
 Press the gauge onto the valve with firm direct pressure and then release. You ll
see the measuring stick get pushed out of the other side of the gauge (on a pen
gauge).
 Fill the tire with air, recheck the pressure, then repeat as needed until the desired
pressure is obtained.
 Replace the valve cap
34

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Tire pressure is measured in PSI (pounds per square inch) or KPA (Kilopascals) which
are simply units of measurement for pressure. (Pressure is a force distributed over
surface area)

Checking the tire pressure

Wheel Alignment
Tires can wear rapidly if they are not aligned properly, or the vehicle can pull to one side
while driving. There are three angle measurements that are used in tire alignment:
camber, toe, and caster. Knowing these angles is necessary for any tire technician. In
addition, knowing these angles can be helpful for anyone trying to communicate with tire
technicians.
In order to understand these angles one must consider the planes of the vehicle, which
are ways of dividing the vehicle in each of its three dimensions (length, width and
height). The horizontal plane, often depicted in math as the X plane, divides the vehicle
into top and bottom parts. The vertical plane, often depicted in math as the Y plane,
divides the vehicle into right and left parts (or driver s side and passenger side). A
second vertical plane which intersects the first vertical plane at 90 degrees is often
depicted in math as the Z plane, and it divides the vehicle into front and rear parts.

These three images show a model of a vehicle from the front, side and top views and the three
dimensional planes that are used to describe tire alignment angles.
Images by Rex Kimball, www.MirexMarketing.com

35

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

The camber angle lies on the Z plane. (Imagine looking at the tires from the front of the
vehicle). A camber angle of zero is when the wheel is vertical. If there is any camber,
then the wheel is deviating from the vertical plane, or the Y plane. In many vehicles the
camber should be zero, but some may deviate by 2-3 degrees.

Image shows an outward camber. Notice how a tire in this alignment would wear quicker on the outside. If
it had an inward camber then it would wear more on the inside of the tire
Image by Rex Kimball, www.MirexMarketing.com

A wheelchair with an inward camber as seen on many athletic wheelchairs.

The toe angle lies on the X plane and deviates from the Y and Z planes. (Imagine the
vehicle from a bird s eye view or a top view). A toe angle of zero is when the wheels are
36

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

parallel on the Z and Y planes. This isn t quite how the wheels should be, at least not
the front wheels. When thinking of toe, consider either the front wheels as a pair or the
rear wheels as a pair. The distance between the front of each pair of wheels is
measured and the rear of each pair (i.e. the distance between the front of the front
wheels and the rear of the front wheels when considering the pair of front wheels).
When the front wheels are properly aligned the front of the front wheels will actually be
slightly closer together than the back of the front wheels, meaning the front wheels
should have a slight inward toe. When the rear wheels are properly aligned they will be
parallel (i.e. the distance between the front of the rear wheels is the same as the
distance between the rear of the rear wheels).

Image shows an inward toe of the front passenger tire.
Image by Rex Kimball, www.MirexMarketing.com

Measuring the distance between the front and back of the front tires as a pair and the rear tires as a pair.
In this illustration, line a is shorter than line b, indicating an inward toe of one or both tires (both in this
image). Lines c and d are equal in length, indicating a toe angle of zero.
Image by Rex Kimball, www.MirexMarketing.com

37

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

If a right wheel is turned inward while the left wheel is straight, or if both wheels are
turned too far inward, or both are turned outward, etc., then there is an abnormal toe
angle present and the wheels are not aligned. (Technically when you steer the vehicle
and the front wheels turn to the left or right, they are deviating from the Y and Z planes,
but they stay parallel to each other with only a slight variation to account for the fact that
one wheel is on the outside and one is on the inside while turning).
The caster angle is an angle which lies on the Y plane and deviates from the Z plane.
(Imagine looking at the vehicle from the side). Most devices with steering capability do
not have a caster angle of zero. When the deviation is towards the rear, the caster is
considered positive. When the deviation is towards the front, the caster is considered
negative. On motor vehicles the caster is usually positive, (the higher ball joint will be
closer to the rear than the lower ball joint). This helps the vehicle to drive straight even
when the steering wheel is hands-free. Since the view of the caster is blocked by the
wheel on vehicles with four wheels, it is most easily visible on motorcycles and bicycles.
Think of the two braces that come down on both sides of the front wheel. Notice how
the handlebars are closer to the rear than the center point (fulcrum) of the front wheel.
This is a clearly visible positive caster. The front wheels of shopping carts have a
negative caster. The physics of a negative caster allows for the front wheels to turn
counter clockwise as the cart is turning clockwise so that the cart is easier to maneuver
throughout the store.

Image shows a positive caster. Motor vehicles have positive casters which help the vehicle drive straight
even with a hands-free steering wheel.
Image by Rex Kimball, www.MirexMarketing.com

38

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

A positive caster is easily seen on the front wheels of motorcycles and bicycles.
Image adapted, original credit: CC-BY-SA-Yesterdays Antique Motorcycles on Wikipedia

Negative caster on a cart
Image adapted, original credit: CC-BY-SA-DMahlko on Wikipedia

39

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Wear Bar
The wear bar is a horizontal bar molded into the tire between the treads. The wear bar
indicates safe tread depth. It is usually about 1/16 of an inch measured from the valley
of the tread, but not as high as the tread itself when the tire is new. As the tread wears
down, the wear bar becomes more visible. When the tread is even with the wear bar the
tires should be changed. Tires should be rotated with each oil change and kept in
alignment to ensure even tread wear.

Tire with arrows pointing to the wear bars between the treads.

How to Change a Tire
Knowing how to change a tire is mostly helpful in case you get a flat while driving on the
road. Every other time your tires get removed, rotated and/or replaced it will be by a tire
technician.
Every vehicle has instructions for using the jack and other tools as necessary to change
the tire. Some of the details can vary by make and model, such as the storage location
for the jack and spare tire. Consult the owner s manual of the vehicle. Also, there will
often be a sticker with instructions located with the jack and spare tire.

40

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Standard spare tire kit with spare tire, lug wrench, and tire jack. This particular kit does not include chocks
for the other tires. Notice how the spare tire is smaller than the regular tire. It is only meant to be used to
get the vehicle to a repair shop.
Image credit: CC-BY-Kurt Nordstrom

Here are some general guidelines for changing a tire (in order):
 Make sure the vehicle is on level ground (see Chapter 1, Safety, proper lifting
points)
 Apply the parking brake
 Remove the spare tire and tools from the vehicle
 Use wheel chocks to block the wheels opposite of the wheel you re changing (i.e.
if you re changing a rear tire, then put the chocks in front of the front wheels).
o Wheel chocks are similar to triangle-shaped door stoppers. When chocks
are included with the tire changing kit, then they should be used. However,
they are not present with every vehicle. Cases where they re not present
may include vehicles with a rear parking brake and front wheel drive.
When changing a rear wheel in these vehicles the front wheel drive keeps
the vehicle stable, and when changing a front wheel in these vehicles the
rear parking brake keeps the vehicle stable.
 Loosen the lug nuts before lifting the vehicle, but do not remove
 Pump or crank the jack to lift the vehicle using the proper lift points (see Chapter
1, Safety, proper lifting points)
 Remove the lug nuts
 Remove the flat tire
 Place the spare tire
 Replace the lug nuts snug
 Lower the vehicle
41

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair




www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Torque the lug nuts (tighten them as much as possible after the vehicle has been
lowered)
Replace the tools in the appropriate location for future use.
Carry the flat full-size tire to the tire shop with you.

Spare tires are often smaller than the full-size tires that are regularly driven on. Spare
tires are only meant to transport the vehicle to a tire shop when needed and should be
changed as soon as possible. They should not be driven on regularly.
Tire Disposal
Any time you purchase a tire, the tire shop is responsible for charging a disposal fee
and disposing the old tire properly. If for some reason you have to dispose of the tires
yourself, you can take them to the city dump. The dump may charge you a fee. You can
try taking it to a tire recycling facility where you might be able to dump them for free or
even get paid for them.

42

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 5: Internal Combustion Engines & Engine Oil
In this chapter you'll learn how an internal combustion engine works and the importance
of engine oil.

How an internal combustion engine works:
All internal combustion engines operate on a theory called the Otto Cycle of events,
named after Nikolaus Otto, who invented it in 1867. It occurs in 4 repeating steps or
cycles:
 Intake
 Compression
 Combustion (or power)
 Exhaust
The fuel and air are drawn into the engine cylinder by the piston moving down while the
intake valve is open. When the piston starts moving up, both intake and exhaust valves
are closed. The piston moving up compresses the air and fuel mixture. The air and fuel
mixture is then ignited with a spark plug (in regular gasoline engines), creating
combustion. The extreme heat creates high pressure forcing the piston down. Next, the
exhaust valve opens. The piston goes back up exhausting the exhaust gas. Then the
cycle is repeated.

C: Crankshaft
E: Exhaust camshaft
I: Inlet camshaft
P: Piston
R: Connecting rod
S: Spark plug
V: Valves (Red: exhaust, Blue: intake)
W: Cooling water duct

Cross section of a cylinder in a combustion engine.

43

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Here is a decent animation of the Otto cycle on YouTube:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6qHherIwsTE. (In the illustration above, the intake is
on the right and the exhaust is on the left, but in the YouTube animation the intake is on
the left and the exhaust is on the right)
The process of combustion is the conversion of chemical energy (gasoline) into heat
energy (combustion) which is converted into reciprocating energy (pumping of the
pistons). The pistons turn a crank shaft via a connecting rod. As the piston goes up and
down during combustion it rotates the crankshaft. The crankshaft turns reciprocating
energy into rotational energy. This energy is eventually transferred to the wheels
through the drivetrain, which we will discuss later in Chapter 9.

An illustration showing pistons (gray) in their respective cylinders (blue) and a crankshaft (red). As the
pistons go up and down the crankshaft is rotated. This image is animated at
http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Cshaft.gif

In a diesel engine there are no spark plugs. The fuel is ignited based on compression
alone. The compression is higher on a diesel engine, which generates enough heat to
cause the combustion.
A hybrid vehicle uses an electric motor and battery for assisting propulsion along with
the internal combustion engine. The internal combustion engine generates electricity to
recharge the batteries. Also, the batteries are recharged when braking to a stop.

44

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Engine Oil

Sample of motor oil

The purpose of engine oil is to form a film of lubrication between all moving parts of an
internal combustion engine to reduce friction and wear. Choosing the right engine oil for
your vehicle and changing the oil during regularly-scheduled maintenance intervals will
keep the engine running smoothly over time. The recommended oil type and
specification for your vehicle can be found in the owner's manual. Another place to find
it is on the oil fill cap. It will be based on the ambient temperature where you live. There
are two engine oil codes that the owner s manual will specify, an API and an SAE.
All oil has an API code which stands for American Petroleum Institute. It's a service
rating for the quality, cleanliness, and types of detergents in the oil. The code will
always be two letters.

The SAE is the viscosity or thickness of the oil. Modern oil is multi-viscosity oil. The SAE
may be something to the effect of 5W-30. The first number-letter combo (5W) indicates
the viscosity or thickness of the oil when it is cold. The second number is the viscosity at
the engine operating temperature. Before they had multi-viscosity oil there was only
single-viscosity oil (such as SAE 30), which in cold weather was extremely thick. Trying
to pour it into your engine would be like pouring honey, but more importantly it would be
hard to pump the oil and lubricate the engine. That's why older engines had to be
warmed up before you could drive them.
45

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 6: The Cooling System
This chapter is about the cooling system for the engine, not the air conditioning used to
cool passengers while driving. A cooling system is needed to dissipate excess heat
created during the internal combustion process.
Cooling system maintenance is preventive maintenance done to avoid an overheating
situation and to avoid electrolysis (the breakdown of metals that occurs inside the
engine block). Cooling system maintenance mileage varies by make and model. In
some cases, maintenance is necessary before the mileage indicated in the owner's
manual. For example, if the manufacturer recommendation is a coolant flush at 150,000
miles, it could easily need to be flushed before that. If the coolant is low then there may
be a leak. Leaks can occur at the water pump, heater core, the hoses, radiator, and at
multiple locations throughout the engine.
The coolant is inspected at every oil change (about every 5,000 miles) and when it is
found to be dirty then a cooling system flush is necessary. Typically the coolant gets
dirty when non-distilled water is mixed with it. The impurities in the water cause
corrosion (breakdown of the metals in the engine), which collect with coolant. This can
clog radiator and cooling passages. That is why coolant is mixed with distilled water
where these impurities are absent.
When checking the coolant at home, be sure to never open the radiator while the
engine is hot. (Remember Chapter 2: Checking Fluids).
How to flush the cooling system:
 Refer to the owner s manual for locations of each part of the cooling system
 Open the radiator drain to drain the cooling system and collect the drainage into
a container (you can take this to your local auto parts store for recycling)
 Remove the thermostat. The thermostat is typically on the engine side of the
upper radiator hose, but in some cases it s on the lower hose.
 Disconnect the lower radiator hose, force coolant through the thermostat housing
(upper hose and engine block) with a garden hose until the water runs clear
 Connect the garden hose to the radiator, flush water through the radiator until the
water runs clear.
 Completely drain the cooling system of all the water.
 Reinstall the thermostat
 Disconnect the reservoir and flush with the garden hose until water runs clear.
Completely drain the reservoir.
 Connect the hoses and close the drains.
 Fill the cooling system with new coolant to manufacturer's specification and
distilled water. Use a 50/50 mixture of coolant and distilled water or pre-mixed
coolant.

46

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Flushing the cooling system will not correct an overheating concern. If your vehicle is
overheating, (as indicated on the temperature gauge on the dash), it would need to be
diagnosed and repaired.
Any time you open the cooling system and put it back together you want to pressure
test the cooling system to check for any leaks. You can use a pressure tester which can
be rented from an auto parts store. It will come with instructions. Generally, it attaches
to the radiator where the radiator cap goes, and you pump it by hand until the pressure
on the gauge matches the pressure that is written on top of the radiator cap. Typically
on a modern vehicle this pressure is between 13 - 16 psi. Let the vehicle sit with this
pressure for 20 - 30 minutes. Then inspect the entire cooling system for any leaks and
check the gauge for a change in pressure. If there is less pressure than before then
there is probably a leak.

47

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

Pressure testing the cooling system

48

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 7: The Fuel System
This chapter is about the fuel system. The fuel system is the system which pumps fuel
into the cylinders of the internal combustion engine and mixes it with the perfect amount
of air for combustion. There are two types of fuel systems: fuel injection and
carburetors.

Illustration of a carburetor.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-WikipedianProlific on Wikipedia

Prior to 1985 most vehicles used a carburetor. A carburetor uses a venturi (narrowed
passage within the carburetor) to draw fuel from a float bowl based strictly on the
volume of air flowing through the carburetor. A carburetor is a primitive method of
mixing air and fuel. It is far less efficient than modern fuel injection. That s why all
modern cars today are built with fuel injection.
How a Fuel Injection System Works:
Fuel injection is a complex electrical circuit using multiple sensors as inputs to a PCM
(powertrain control module, also called the computer). The PCM then interprets the
inputs from these sensors and produces a PWM (pulse width modulated) signal. A
PWM signal is a digital on/off signal. This translates into how much fuel is injected into
the engine.
The PCM then receives feedback signals from oxygen sensors. An oxygen sensor is a
sensor that checks the air-fuel ratio by monitoring exhaust gas at or near the exhaust
49

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

manifolds (review Chapter 5 if needed). Using this information, the PCM can adjust fuel
trim accordingly to keep the engine running clean, long and efficient. This is one of the
main reasons newer automobiles last so much longer, burn less fuel, and have cleaner
emissions.

Illustration of a fuel injector.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-WikipedianProlific on Wikipedia

Fuel Filter and Air Filter:
There are two filters which protect the fuel system and engine: the fuel filter and the air
filter. The fuel system is very sensitive to contamination and debris. A small amount of
contamination can cause severe problems in any fuel system. Therefore, these filters
are critical for protecting the fuel system and engine.

A fuel filter (white) next to the air filter compartment (circular black part)
Image credit: CC-BY-Phasmatisnox on Wikipedia

50

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

When you fill your vehicle with fuel from a gas station, the fuel will have contaminants.
Between the fuel tank and the engine the fuel passes through a sock filter which
prevents large contaminants from passing through. Then the fuel will pass through the
fuel filter which prevents small contaminants from passing. Anything that passes
through the fuel filter can pass through the rest of the fuel system. Refer to the owner s
manual to find the manufacturer's recommendation for the mileage at which the fuel
filter should be changed.
An air filter protects the engine from dust and dirt entering the combustion chamber
through the air intake system. Any dirt in the engine can cause engine wear and
eventually lead to engine failure. Therefore, an air filter, like the fuel filter, is also a
critical component in any internal combustion engine. The air filter is inspected with
every oil change and it is changed as needed. (The air filter was also mentioned in
Chapter 2 since checking it is part of general maintenance).

Various air filters.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA- Maly LOLek on Wikipedia

51

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 8: The Electrical System
This chapter is about the electrical system of the vehicle. The main parts of the
electrical system are the battery, alternator, and ignition system. The battery is the
power source of the whole vehicle. The alternator is a re-charging device which is used
to maintain the charge of the battery. The ignition system is used to ignite the fuel at the
correct time during the Otto cycle of events (review Chapter 5 for the Otto cycle of
events).

Alternator
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Lolossos on Wikipedia

Car Battery

Ignition System (prior to 1975)
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Allumage_batterie on Wikipedia

52

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

The ignition in this lesson is not the same as the key ignition; it s about the ignition
system that is used in the engine to ignite the air-fuel mixture in the combustion
chamber. Prior to 1975, the ignition system consisted of the ignition coil, capacitor,
contact breaker, distributor and spark plugs. The ignition coil converts low voltage
electricity into high voltage. The high voltage electricity is sent to the distributor through
the rotor, then it transmits out the distributor cap through plug wires to the spark plugs.
The contact breaker or contact points complete and interrupt the circuit to the ignition
coil on the low voltage side. The capacitor absorbs a voltage spike when the points
open to avoid burning the contacts of the points.
In a modern vehicle the ignition system consists of a crankshaft position sensor, which
sends a signal to the PCM (powertrain control module or computer). The PCM interprets
the signal and sends a signal to the ignition coils on each cylinder. Then the ignition
coils fire through the spark plugs. Some vehicles will use one coil for two cylinders, and
some have a separate coil for each cylinder. When one coil is used for two cylinders,
the spark plugs for both cylinders fire at the same time, but one of the cylinders will be
in the exhaust step of the Otto cycle, so it s kind of a waste spark (not used to ignite
fuel).
The ignition system works in conjunction with fuel injection (Chapter 7) so that the
correct Otto Cycle of events occurs in the cylinders. The cylinders of internal
combustion engines are numbered and the firing sequence occurs in a specific order.
The firing order can vary by vehicle make and model. The engine size is also a factor.
For example, in an 8 cylinder Chevy engine the cylinders might be numbered 1, 3, 5, 7
on the driver s side (or left side of the engine from the driver s perspective), and 2, 4, 6,
8 on the passenger side. The firing order for this particular engine would be 1, 8, 4, 3, 6,
5, 7, 2.

Illustration of numbered cylinders of a V8 engine; the driver s side is the right side of this image since the
front of the engine is towards the bottom of the image.

53

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Spark Plug Gap:
The purpose of the spark plug gap is to create an electric arc or spark of high heat to
ignite the air-fuel mixture in the combustion chamber at the correct time. If the gap is too
small then the spark is not hot enough to ignite the fuel. If the gap is too wide, then the
voltage is not high enough to create a spark. Either condition can create an ignition
misfire, causing poor performance and high emissions.
How to Safely Jump Start a Vehicle with a Failed Battery:
When a battery loses its charge the vehicle won t start and it becomes necessary to use
another vehicle for a jump start. Since jump starting a failed battery with a charged
battery involves creating an electrical circuit, it is important to follow the right steps to
perform a jump start safely:
 Do your best to line up the vehicles so that the two batteries are close enough to
connect jumper cables.
 Turn off the active vehicle
 Verify there is no odor (like sulfur) coming from either battery. If there is a sulfur
odor do not attempt to jump start the vehicle. The battery could explode due to
the gas that is released (hydrogen gas).
 The next steps involve connecting the cables. When connecting cables to the
first vehicle, which is the dead vehicle, make sure the other ends of the cables
are not touching each other.
 First connect the red cable to the positive (red) battery terminal on the dead
battery or to the jump start locations specified in the owner s manual.
 Connect the black cable to the negative terminal of the dead battery or to the
jump start locations specified in the owner s manual.
 Connect the positive (red) cable to the positive terminal of the working vehicle (or
to the specified jump start location in the owner s manual of the working vehicle).
 Connect the negative (black) cable to the negative terminal of the working vehicle
(or to the specified jump start location in the owner s manual of the working
vehicle) or to anything metal. The metal must be bare or without any paint that
would inhibit conduction of electricity. The engine block is sufficient. Yet, the
negative terminal is often the most accessible.
o (More briefly the order is: dead red, dead black, live red, then live black.
Red is always positive, black is always negative.)
 Start the working vehicle and allow it to run for approximately 5 minutes.
 Attempt to start the other vehicle. If the vehicle fails to start, there may be
additional problems or the battery is no longer rechargeable.
 Take off the cables in reverse order (always remove negative first) and make
sure the cables don t touch each other as you re removing them
o Remove the negative cable from the jumped vehicle
o Remove the positive cable from the jumped vehicle (make sure they don t
touch each other)
o Remove the negative cable from the previously working vehicle
o Remove the positive cable from the previously working vehicle.
54

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

That may seem like a lot of steps above to memorize, so here are some tricks to
remember the process: first connect the Dead Red, Fred. This phrase will help you
remember that when connecting the cables you ll start with the positive cable on the
dead battery. The order is dead red, dead black, live red, live black. Then it s the
reverse order to remove the cables after the dead battery is jumped: First remove the
Jumped Black, Jack. Remove the jumped black, jumped red, then the previously live
black, then the previously live red.
Never attempt to jump start a diesel vehicle. Since a diesel engine battery requires
much more power, attempting to jump start it could damage the running vehicle.
Typically you can attempt to jump start a hybrid car, but if the high power battery is
dead, the vehicle will not start. However, a hybrid can be used to jump start a regular
gasoline vehicle.

55

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 9: The Drive Train
The drive train (drivetrain or powertrain) is a series of parts that transfer energy from the
combustion engine to the wheels. If needed, review Chapter 5 to recall how the internal
combustion engine works to convert chemical energy to rotational energy. The drive
train has three main parts: the transmission, drive line or drive shaft, and differential. In
some four-wheel drive vehicles a transfer case is also necessary.

Powertrain for a Subaru vehicle. The engine and transmission are seen on the right. The drive shaft is in
the middle and the differential is on the left at the center of the rear axle.

The rotation of the crankshaft in the internal combustion engine does not equal the
rotation of the wheels. Just like a bicycle, motor vehicles have gears. The lower gears
are used for lower speeds, while the higher gears are used for higher speeds. Yet, the
RPM which is read on the dashboard tachometer may be relatively constant (or stay
within a range) through all speeds. The transmission, which is where the actual gears
are located, takes an input speed from the crankshaft and reduces it to the output speed
until the vehicle is in direct drive. In other words, it changes the gear ratios. So, in first
gear you might have an input to output ratio of 4 to 1. This means that as the input shaft
goes around four times, the output shaft goes around one time. At 4,000 RPMs input
you would have 1,000 RPMs output. Second gear may have a 3 to 1 ratio and third gear
a 2 to 1 ratio. Fourth gear would be direct drive with a 1 to 1 ratio.
Think of the sprockets on a bicycle. There is a large sprocket on the front that rotates as
the bike is pedaled, and there are also large and small sprockets on the back wheel with
a chain that connects the front sprocket to the rear sprockets. As the gears are
changed, so is the mechanical advantage for the person that is pedaling.

56

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

In direct drive, the input speed and the output speed are the same; there is no gear
reduction. Modern vehicles have overdrive, which is a ratio of 0.75 to 1. This means that
the input speed is less than the output speed, which results in better fuel economy on
modern vehicles.
These numbers and ratios are used to present the general idea. Every vehicle has its
own input to output ratios.
The drive line (or drive shaft) is a round tube that transfers power from the transmission
to a differential. It is situated longitudinally underneath the car. A front-wheel drive
vehicle won t have a drive shaft. Some four-wheel drive vehicles have more than one
drive shaft.
A differential (aka rear differential in rear-wheel drive vehicles, rear end, or part of the
rear axle) has hypoid gears. These are specialized gears which transmit the rotation of
the drive shaft 90 degrees in order to turn the axles and correlating wheels and tires.
There are spider gears inside the center section of the differential that allow the wheels
to travel different distances while turning. Consider a car that is turning right. The
driver s side rear wheel travels a farther distance than the passenger side rear wheel.
Think of using a protractor to draw a circle. One leg of the protractor simply rotates on
one center spot, while the other leg draws the circle. While the rear wheels of a vehicle
don t turn as sharply as a protractor, the principle is the same.

A differential for a German vehicle with cutout to see the inside.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Aconcagua on Wikipedia

57

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

An illustration of a differential which shows how the gears can be used to change the direction of the
rotation. The drive shaft is on the lower right corner of the image. The top right and lower left of the image
show the rear axle which extends to the rear wheels.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-17177 on Wikipedia

The Difference Between a Manual and Automatic Transmission:
A manual transmission (which is also called a standard transmission) uses conventional
gears. All of these gears are turning at all times when the engine is running and the
clutch is released. When a gear is selected with the gear shift, the gear is being
attached to the output shaft. Then to change gears, the clutch is depressed and the next
gear is selected which attaches that gear to the output shaft. The gears are manually
selected.

58

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Illustration of a manual transmission.

An automatic transmission uses sun and planet gears. A sun and planet gear set has
a central sun gear with planetary gears (typically three or four) located around the
sun gear. These gears can rotate, turn or hold to create different speeds and
directions. To select the gears there are multiple clutch packs and/or bands that are
hydraulically applied by a valve body to control gear selection.

59

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Illustration of sun and planet gears in an automatic transmission. The yellow gear in the illustration is the
sun gear and the four violet gears surrounding the sun gear are the planet gears.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Wapcaplet on Wikipedia

Types of Automatic Transmission Fluid:
There are 30 or more different types of transmission fluid for today s modern vehicles.
All the fluids look the same. Refer to the owner s manual to select the correct fluid.
Aftermarket suppliers make fluids that are compatible with multiple different vehicles.
When choosing aftermarket fluids, be sure that the specified fluid in the owner s manual
is listed on the aftermarket bottle.
Lubricants Used in Standard Transmission:
The lubricants used in a standard (or manual) transmission on modern vehicles have
multiple types of fluid. Be sure that the fluid installed in the vehicle meets the
manufacturer's specifications.
Lubricants Used in Differentials:
Most differentials use conventional 80-90 gear oil. The 80-90 numbers indicate the
weight and viscosity of the oil. (These are similar to the API and SAE discussed in
Chapter 5). Some vehicles require special fluids. Be sure the fluid meets the
manufacturer s specifications. Limited slip differentials may require an additional
additive.
The Difference Between Front Wheel Drive, Rear Wheel Drive & Four Wheel Drive:
The main differences between front wheel, rear wheel, and four wheel drive are the
position of the drive train parts and where the drive train transmits the energy.

60

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Illustration of a transaxle which has a transmission and a differential
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Hoikka1 on Wikipedia

Front-wheel drive
Includes engine (red), and transaxle.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA- Moebiusuibeom-en on Wikipedia

A front wheel drive vehicle incorporates a differential and a transmission into one piece,
called a transaxle. The transaxle transmits power from the engine to the front wheels.

61

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Rear-wheel drive
Includes engine (red), transmission, drive shaft, and rear differential.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA- Moebiusuibeom-en on Wikipedia

A rear wheel drive vehicle transmits engine power through a transmission to the drive
shaft, and then to a differential in the rear of the vehicle.

Four-wheel drive
Includes engine (red), transmission, transfer case, front & rear drive lines, and front & rear differentials.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA- Moebiusuibeom-en on Wikipedia

62

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Alternate four-wheel drive
Includes engine (red), front transaxle, drive line, and rear differential.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA- Moebiusuibeom-en on Wikipedia

One type of four wheel drive vehicle transmits power through a transmission, and then
to a transfer case, which distributes the power through the front and rear drive shafts,
then to the front and rear differentials. Another type of four wheel drive has a front
transaxle and rear differential.
(The diagrams in this book are not the only configurations. A vehicle can have a rear
engine with all three drive types, or even a mid-mounted engine.)

63

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 10: Brakes
Brakes offer a way to slow the momentum of a vehicle for better control and safety on
the road. A brake system uses hydraulic advantage to apply force to a friction material
that generates heat. A moving vehicle has kinetic energy. Brakes convert kinetic energy
into heat energy.
There are two types of brakes: disc brakes and drum brakes. The main differences are
the shapes of the brakes and their friction material. Friction material provides the buffer
that prevents metal from grinding when the brakes are applied. It can withstand the heat
that is generated, although it wears out over time and has to be replaced many times
throughout the life of the vehicle.
Disc brakes have a rotor (disc) for each wheel and brake pads are the friction material.
A brake caliper applies force to a brake pad, which presses it against the rotor when it is
applied. This generates heat and stops the vehicle.

A disc brake. The rotor is the shiny gold-colored disc and the caliper is red. The black piece between the
caliper and the rotor is the pad.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-David Monniaux

Disc brake pads. They re red in this image. They can be any color.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Treemonster86 on Wikipedia

64

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Drum brakes are shaped like a drum and brake shoes are the friction material. A wheel
cylinder applies pressure to a brake shoe with a friction lining. Think of a circle within a
circle. A hydraulic device expands the shape of the shoes to press against the drum.
This generates heat and stops the vehicle.

Illustration of a drum brake
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Wapcaplet on Wikipedia

Drum brake shoes (violet color) and linings.
Image credit: CC-BY-SA-Maly LOLek on Wikipedia

The master cylinder is a hydraulic cylinder that is used to apply force to the brake
calipers and/or wheel cylinders. The wheel cylinders (used in drum brakes) and the
brake calipers (used in disc brakes) are both hydraulic slave cylinders .
Anti-lock brakes have complex electrical and hydraulic components which are used to
avoid skidding wheels in a panic stop or in a poor traction condition. The anti-lock
brakes (ABS) use signals from each wheel speed sensor to determine if one wheel is
65

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

stopping faster than any of the others. If this occurs, the ABS control module (a
computer) will signal the ABS hydraulic control unit to isolate that wheel, release brake
pressure, and then pulsates the brake pressure to maintain equal speeds of all four
wheels. This helps avoid skidding and maintains maneuverability during a panic stop.
How to Check the Brake System:
The brake system is often checked by the mechanic during routine oil changes and
maintenance. However, it can also be checked at home. Consult the service manual of
the specific make and model about checking the brakes and finding the locations of
each part of the brake system. Follow these steps to check the brake system:
 Start under the hood.
 Check the brake master cylinder for leaks.
 Check the level and condition of the brake fluid.
 Inspect all lines and the anti-lock brake module for leaks or loose, damaged
connectors.
 Raise the vehicle and support it securely on a lift or jack stands (review Lesson 1
if needed)
 Remove all four wheels
 If the vehicle has drum brakes, then remove the drums.
 Inspect all brake lines and hoses for signs of leaking or cracking
 Inspect the caliper hardware and dust boots for damage
 Inspect the caliper (or wheel cylinders) for brake fluid leaking.
 Inspect the rotors for smoothness. If a rotor has any pits or grooves then it will
have to be reconditioned or replaced.
 Check the thickness of all the brake pads.
If there is any variation in the brake pad (or shoe) thickness between the driver side and
passenger side, then there may be an adjustment problem, a defective caliper or other
defective hardware. Usually the front brakes wear faster since the front brakes are
responsible for about 80% of the stopping. There is no blanket measurement for brake
pad thickness since the thickness of new pads can vary by make and model of the
vehicle. A few millimeters could appear brand new in one car but be an indication for
pad replacement in another. If the thickness of the pad is 20% of the original thickness
or less, then the pads should be replaced. The original thickness can be found in the
service manual for the vehicle.

66

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 11: The Auto Repair Industry
Consumers should be aware of how the auto repair industry works. When you bring
your vehicle to an auto repair shop and enter the office, you re usually greeted by a
service writer. It doesn t matter if you go to a dealership, a franchised shop (like Midas
or Firestone), or a small independent shop -- more often than not, the service writer is
the first person you meet. The service writer acts as an intermediary between you and
the repair technician. He tells the technician to inspect the car, the technician informs
him what the findings are, and then he comes back to you with the findings. Some
shops allow the customer to come into the repair room to see the technician s findings,
but many don t.
The service writer is evaluated by upper management, which may include the manager
of the shop, a director of one or many shops, and/or the owner. The owners of large
shops are not usually onsite and function mostly as investors. They re hoping to make a
return on their investment. Directors may manage multiple shops or be the head of an
entire department, such as the service department at a dealership.

Illustration of how the auto repair industry is organized

Since the service writer is a middleman between the customer and the technician, there
are frequent communication problems that can occur. A customer may come into the
shop and say that the car makes a squeaking sound when the brakes are applied. The
service writer thinks it s the brake pads, so he tells the technician to inspect the brake
pads. There may be nothing wrong with the brake pads. What the service writer should
have done is write down that there is a squeaking sound when the brakes are applied.
Then the technician can diagnose the problem better. Similar communication issues can
also occur in the other direction. The technician may explain problems or findings to the
service writer and the service writer may fail to relay the information correctly to the
customer.

67

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

The service writer is first and foremost a salesman, not a technician. His knowledge and
understanding of how a vehicle works is often not any greater than the customer s.
Some service writers can be very knowledgeable about cars; others are not. In either
case, when the customer speaks to him, he will appear to understand what is wrong
with the vehicle.
A major problem with the entire industry, from the technicians to upper management, is
that everyone is paid on commission. This means that they are motivated and rewarded
to increase sales and raise the price in order to make more money. The services that
they suggest are often not damaging to the car; they re just not necessary. They may
say that your cooling system needs a flush when it doesn t or they could fudge the
numbers on maintenance intervals to increase the frequency of services. Maintenance
services are often based on mileage, so it s easy for a shop to say that a service is
required at 30,000 miles when it actually isn t due until 90,000 miles. By changing the
interval to every 30,000 miles, they sell the service three times instead of one. This is
why it is important to review the maintenance chart in the owner s manual of the vehicle.
Also, some repairs are needed at an earlier time than what is specified in the owner s
manual. This will be based on certain conditions which can include the weather, the
driving route, the driver s habits, and other environmental conditions where the vehicle
is driven or parked on a regular basis.
Auto dealerships generally have a service department and a sales department which
are run as two separate businesses. The sales department is actually a customer to the
service department. The sales department is responsible for moving inventory (selling
cars on the lot). The service department is responsible for providing services which
include inspections, maintenance and repairs. The sales department is a customer to
the service department because every vehicle has be inspected and serviced before it
can be sold. Since the service writer is still paid by commission even when ordering
services for the same dealership, he can often tell the sales department that a particular
vehicle can t be placed out on the lot unless it receives all the top services. Since the
sales department wants to sell the vehicle, they have no other choice than to accept the
services and pass the additional costs on to the customer. The service department is
the one that determines whether a vehicle can be put on the lot, not the sales
department. This arrangement can be a safeguard for the vehicles being sold and add
protection to buyers. However, it also gives the services writers more control and it is
often used to increase commissions.
When people take their cars to the dealership for maintenance, they are often under the
impression that the dealership has a certified technician performing the repairs. Often
the technicians are just kids out of high school with little training or experience. These
entry level employees are often called lube techs because traditionally the job only
involves changing the oil. However, today some dealerships allow lube techs to perform
any repair that they feel comfortable doing, even if they weren t specifically trained for it.
This saves the dealership money because the lube techs aren t paid as much as the
certified technicians.

68

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Illustration of Auto Dealership organization

Some shops are sincerely honest, and they do their best to provide good service. Yet,
the system is still flawed. The staff is still paid by commission and the communication
gap can still exist between the customer and the repair technician due to the presence
of the middleman service writer.
At Crawford s Auto Repair, we have a completely different system of management. The
owners are the technicians and they don t get paid by commission. There are no service
writers. Customers have direct interaction with the technician, who inspects the vehicle.
An honest and accurate estimate is given to each customer. The technician only
performs the repairs after receiving permission from the customer and customers are
always welcome into the repair room to observe the inspections and repairs. Also, we
never try to sell unnecessary repairs or services.

Illustration of Crawford s Auto Repair organization - no service writer, no commissions, no unnecessary
services or fees.

69

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

This book is provided to all auto repair consumers free of charge to help them gain a
better understanding of their vehicle and the auto industry in order to save money. If
you ve enjoyed this book, and if you re within a reasonable driving distance of our shop,
then come try us out.
We re located at 2855 S Alma School Rd, Mesa, Arizona 85210.
Visit our website at www.CrawfordsAutoService.com or call us at 480-201-0740.
Our website and blog have more information on auto maintenance and repair.

70

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

Chapter 12: How to Buy a Car
By contributing author Rex Kimball
Buying a big-ticket item, like a vehicle, can be daunting, especially if the buyer doesn t
know where to start. This chapter offers a beginner s guide to buying a vehicle. Yet,
when it comes to buying a vehicle, serious buyers will go beyond the steps described
here. For example, this chapter may mention the art of negotiation, yet entire books
have been written on the subject of negotiating, and increasing one s skill in negotiation
will help the buyer to get a better deal.
One of the most important things for potential car buyers to know is that the majority of
vehicles depreciate in value over time. If you purchase a new or used vehicle from a
dealership, the vehicle depreciates by about 20% of the sale price the minute it is driven
off the lot. That means that if you turned around and sold the vehicle within a week,
you d probably only be able to sell it for about 20% less than you paid for it. It s not like
buying a house where the property generally increases in value over time (except
during economic decline). Vehicles are not investments; they re simply a necessary
expense in locations that don t have good public transportation as an alternative. (They
could be investments if you get involved in the collector s market, which is an entirely
different game).
It is also important to realize that the cost in owning a vehicle is much more than simply
the sales price of the vehicle. All expenses must be considered before accepting the
burden on your monthly budget. The sales price of the vehicle is just the beginning. If
you re taking out a loan to pay for the vehicle then you ll first have the monthly loan
payment.
You ll also have to pay for gas to run the vehicle. The price of gas varies from week to
week and by location. Wednesday is probably the best day of the week to buy gas. You
also don t want to fill up while the service truck is at the gas station refilling the storage
tanks. When they refill the tanks there are contaminants at the bottom that get stirred up
and these contaminants can come through the gas pumps and into your vehicle.
Granted, you learned about the fuel filter in Chapter 7, but there is no sense in wearing
it out sooner than you have to. Go to www.MapQuest.com and click on gas prices to
find the best gas prices in your area. The amount of gas that you have to purchase from
week to week will depend on how much you drive and the gas mileage of the vehicle
that you purchase.
Gas mileage is calculated by the change in mileage divided by gallons used (or miles
per gallon, MPG). The next time you go to the gas station to refuel, fill the gas tank to
full and write down the mileage that appears on your odometer. Then, after you ve
driven for a while, return to the gas station and fill the gas tank to full. The amount of
gallons that you purchased is the amount of gas that you used from full tank to full tank
after driving for that time. That number goes in the denominator of the equation. The
number of gallons will appear on the pump display and on your receipt. When refilling
the second time, you ll also record the mileage on your odometer. The change in
71

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

mileage is the new mileage recording minus the previous mileage recording, and that
number goes in the numerator of the equation.

When shopping for vehicles, you can look up the gas mileage as one of the features.
(Go to any page past the home page at www.CrawfordsAutoService.com to use the free
tool on the sidebar). The reported gas mileage is a statistical average that the vehicle
generally gets and the vehicle that you purchase could get better or worse gas mileage
depending on the condition of the vehicle and the roads where you will be driving.
There will be a monthly fee for vehicle insurance. Insurance fees will vary by the amount
of coverage that you want. Liability insurance only pays for any damages that you might
cause to the other party when you get in an accident and you are at fault. It won t pay to
replace your vehicle or for your potential medical bills. You ll also want to consider
whether you want roadside service in case the vehicle breaks down, or coverage for car
rental fees in case you need a replacement vehicle while your vehicle is repaired. This
additional coverage cost more per month.
There are many car insurance companies. Some of the more frequently advertised
companies are Geico, All State, Progressive, Farmers, Esurance, and Liberty Mutual.
Yet, there are many, many others. Their advertisements often tout that by simply giving
them a call you could save a significant amount on your monthly insurance bill. That is
true because each of their coverage plans are catered to specific types of drivers and
these plans change from year to year. Hypothetically, this year Insurance Company A
might have better rates for the common commuter with nothing on their driving record,
while Insurance Company B might have the best rates for single mothers who are
transporting three or more children on a regular basis. When they determine the
monthly rate, they take many factors into consideration and many of these factors are
company secrets that aren t publicly announced to potential customers. So, the best
way to find the best deal is to get a quote from each company.
Some ways to reduce your monthly insurance cost are to never get a speeding ticket,
never get in an accident, get good grades if you re a student, get married, be within a
certain income bracket (not too low or too high), be female, and stay in frequent contact
with the insurance company. Most of these factors are based on statistics. They re not
being sexist or having other forms of bias; they have the research and numbers to
justify charging a higher monthly fee for drivers who are at a higher risk. Also, many
insurance companies offer discounts if you combine your car insurance with other types
of insurance that they offer, such as home owner s insurance. They call it bundle
discounts.
Shopping for the best car insurance can be a long process. Without a doubt there is a
large percentage of car insurance customers who are paying more because they re too
72

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

intimidated by the research that is required for finding the best deal. You should get
used to the idea that you ll frequently need to call the insurance company and be put on
hold to wait for a representative. Be adamant enough with the representatives to get the
best deals and avoid getting ripped off, yet be courteous and professional enough so
that the representative will still want to help you. Shopping for car insurance can start
simultaneously with shopping for the vehicle. Some companies may be able to help you
identify the vehicles with the lowest monthly insurance rates. Yet, some of them might
not be able to provide a quote until you can tell them which vehicle you ll be driving.
Besides the vehicle price, gas and insurance, there will be yearly fees for vehicle
registration. You can find out the yearly registration fee by contacting your local Motor
Vehicle Division (MVD or DMV) or your state s department of transportation. Some
states require vehicle inspections and emissions testing before your vehicle can be
registered. This information is also available at the DMV.
There will also be costs for maintenance and repair. The best way to reduce these costs
is by taking care of the vehicle and following the maintenance chart in the owner s
manual. If the vehicle has a service light illuminated on the dashboard or if the vehicle
starts to have symptoms - don t neglect it. Neglect will lead to further damage, which will
require more expensive repairs. A simple example is brake pad replacement. Replacing
the brake pads could cost about $200; but if you wait until the pads wear down
completely and you start grinding metal on the rotor, then the repair could easily be
$800 or more (review Chapter 10 for brakes). If the vehicle is well-maintained, it will last
a lot longer -- maybe even 15 years longer or more. Overall, it costs less to maintain a
vehicle than to buy new vehicles more frequently.
Maintenance costs will be a factor for determining which vehicle to purchase since
some makes and models cost more to maintain than others. Often, a more expensive
sales price of the vehicle also means that replacement parts and maintenance will cost
more. Some car manufacturers could even have the same part for the basic and sporty
models. Yet, if the same part is ordered for the sporty model then it will cost more. The
parts manufacturer figures that if the customer could pay for the sportier model then
they can also pay more for the part, even if it s the exact same part with a different label.
Review of Vehicle Expenses:
 Sales price/monthly loan payment
 Monthly insurance payment
 Yearly registration fee
 State inspection fees
 Gas
 Regular maintenance
 Repairs
Once you re able to determine a ballpark figure for your monthly expenses of owning a
vehicle, you ll be ready to start shopping. Some people find more comfort in purchasing
a vehicle from a dealership because the organization within a brick and mortar facility
73

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

gives them a false sense of security. The problem with purchasing from a dealership is
that they add unnecessary services and fees. For example, in Arizona they might add a
desert care package and it will be listed with all the other fees. Since most customers
don t know what the desert care package is, they don t ask about it. It essentially means
that they tinted the windows without asking if you wanted it, and they will absolutely be
charging you more than it would cost to tint the windows privately. They might also list
theft protection as one of the fees. This means that they had a technician etch a
number into the windows. They might charge $200 for this service which takes the
technician about 10-15 minutes to perform. Also, if you re vehicle gets stolen, the police
department won t use this number to identify your vehicle. They ll use the VIN (vehicle
identification number).
The dealership will have many tricks for justifying an increased price on the bottom line.
You can avoid some of these expenses by going through each item on the list and
asking them to describe exactly what this means. Don t accept the sales description; tell
them to really explain it. Then, if you don t want it on the bill, tell them to take it off. If you
buy from a dealership you can expect to spend the entire day there. Dealerships also
offer poor trade-in value for your prior vehicle.
If you decide to buy from a dealership, the best time of the year to buy is December,
particularly on Christmas Eve and New Year s Eve. In any given month, the inventory
on the lot isn t necessarily owned by the dealership. They have the vehicles on a floor
money loan. If they don t keep the vehicle beyond a certain time period, they don t have
to pay interest on the loan, and they make the profit from the sale without an additional
expense. If you happen to pick a vehicle that is near the end of its loan period, then the
dealership might be willing to sell it at a cheaper price. December is a particularly good
time since people are more willing to buy during the holidays and the dealerships want
to increase their sales numbers before the end of the year. This makes them more
willing to negotiate, regardless of whether the loan period for the vehicle is ending.
If you buy from a private owner, there is no guarantee that they won t tell you little white
lies about the vehicle in order to get you to buy it. However, a private owner won t be as
likely to trick you into spending more for the vehicle than it s worth. There are tools that
you can use to determine the value of the vehicle, and give you a more accurate
starting point for a fair price.
Before deciding which vehicle to purchase, you ll want to write down some of the
features you want, or decide on the purposes that the vehicle will serve. A pickup truck
might make an excellent working vehicle, but the gas mileage could make it a lousy
commuter vehicle. Will it be meant for one driver or more than one driver? How many
passengers will be transported on a regular basis? Do you need a lot of trunk space?
Do you plan on driving it until it dies, or will you sell it once it reaches a certain age or
mileage? If you know that you ll eventually sell it, then you ll want to pick a make and
model with a good reputation for resale value. All these features and more will help
determine which vehicle you should look for.

74

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

If you buy from a private owner, the shopping will begin within the comfort of your own
home. Some resources to find cars for sale include www.Craigslist.org,
www.AutoTrader.com (and the Auto Trader print publication), Yahoo! Autos
(autos.yahoo.com), www.Cars.com, and many free publications which are given away
at local gas stations and outside public libraries.
When you find a vehicle that interests you, look up the make and model on Kelly
Bluebook (www.KBB.com) to see the listed value. Sometimes a seller will list it for
higher than the Kelly Bluebook price on purpose. There could be a variety of reasons for
doing this, which include: hesitation to sell the vehicle, hope to sell it for more, upgrades
which the owner added, or simply the expectation to negotiate.
If the vehicle says OBO , it means or best offer . This is an open invitation to
negotiate. There may also be a variety of other abbreviations, especially if the ad is in
print. Printed advertising fees are based on the number of characters or words, so the
seller is trying to save money on the ad. If there is ever an abbreviation that you don t
understand, look for an abbreviation key in the publication or look it up online.
If the vehicle has a restored title , that means that at one time the vehicle had enough
damage that the cost of repair was more than the total value of the vehicle. It may have
been in an accident, flood, or other event to cause the damage. The repairs can include
anything from engine repair to cosmetic changes to the vehicle. Generally, restored
titles are less expensive, but the risk that there is something wrong is much greater.
Once you find a vehicle you re interested in, call or email the owner for more
information. Since the ad may not have all the information you need, here are some
questions you might want to ask:
Go through the features listed on Kelly Blue Book and gather any information you
need that is not on the ad (Is it a two door or four door? Does it have a CD
player, etc.)
If you re a non-smoker, was the vehicle ever driven by a smoker? A smoker
wouldn t care much either way, but a non-smoker will find it s very difficult to get
the smell of smoke out. Smokers who know they ll sell their vehicle eventually
should never smoke in that vehicle because it reduces the resale value.
Has it had its regular maintenance? Oil changes at 5,000 miles? Etc. -- A vehicle
with 100,000 miles that has had regular maintenance is better than a vehicle with
20,000 miles and never been maintained.
Would it be OK if I test drove it to my mechanic as part of the evaluation?
Is the Carfax provided? -- A Carfax is a report of all the times the vehicle has had
an insurance claim for repairs. (http://www.Carfax.com) If you buy from a
dealership, they usually include the Carfax. If you buy from a private owner, they
75

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

may or may not provide the Carfax since it costs extra. Auto Trader online has a
place which indicates if the Carfax is available.
What was the car used for and where was it driven most of the time? Were dirt
roads a part of the regular commute? Etc. -- Some of the best vehicles were only
driven to the grocery store and home by an old lady who never went anywhere
else and always took care of her things. Buying a used car from an organization
who regularly kept them maintained for top reliable performance can also be a
good source, such as an LDS Mission or a business.
Is the price negotiable?
If you re satisfied with the phone or email interview, then you ll schedule a time with the
owner for seeing the vehicle.
After reading this book, you ll have a much greater advantage when evaluating a
potential vehicle for purchase. You ll know to check the dashboard lights, the horn, the
exterior lights, the battery, and many other parts of the vehicle because now you re
familiar with how a vehicle works. You ll want to make sure it comes with a complete
spare tire kit. Try looking down the side of the vehicle at different angles to see how the
light reflects off the paint. If you detect two different coats of paint or areas where touch
up paint has been applied then ask the seller about it. If the side panels and doors look
smooth from one angle but then you detect some waviness when looking from a
different angle, then the vehicle may have been in a side-impact collision and its safety
features could be compromised.
You ll want to test drive the vehicle. See how it handles, accelerates and brakes. Go to
a stretch of road like a freeway onramp or a long stretch between street lights where
you can floor it. At some point in the inspection, you ll ask for a Carfax report or any of
the information the seller might have on previous maintenance and repairs.
One of the smartest things you can do is take the car to a trusted mechanic as part of
the evaluation. Find a place where you can develop a direct working relationship with
the technician and not a service writer (review Chapter 11 for a description of service
writers). Crawford s Auto Repair would be your best choice for a pre-purchase
inspection if you live in the Mesa-Chandler-Gilbert area of Arizona. Some shops offer a
free estimate but if they know you re requesting the evaluation to buy a vehicle, then
they might charge for the inspection since there is less of a chance of you buying their
repair services. The inspection fee will be worth it because the trained eye of the
mechanic and the tools they use for diagnostics will enable them to spot things that you
don t even know to look for. They ll look at the body of the vehicle from the inside, raise
it up and look at the drive train and the underside of the engine, the brakes, and they ll
attach their diagnostic device to the vehicle computer to receive any trouble codes that
are stored on the vehicle s computer. A mechanic s inspection will tell you much more
information than simply looking at the vehicle or test driving it yourself. And a seller who
is confident in the value of the vehicle will allow you have it evaluated by a mechanic.
76

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

After a personal inspection of the vehicle and the mechanic s inspection, if possible
you ll want to use an internet-enabled device to go through the Kelly Blue Book estimate
again. Now that you have more information, you ll be able to get a more accurate
estimate from Kelly Blue Book. Also, ask the mechanic for his best estimate on what the
vehicle is worth. Between Blue Book and the mechanic, keep this baseline estimate in
mind and do not go over it when negotiating. First of all, are you willing to pay this
baseline estimate for the vehicle? If you don t want the vehicle enough to negotiate,
then just let the owner know that after evaluating the vehicle you re not interested. If you
are interested then you can start negotiating.
Consider the asking price of the vehicle. Is it lower than your baseline estimate? If it is,
then it s your new baseline and do not go above it. If the asking price is above your
baseline estimate then still do not go above your baseline. You ll want to make a
counter offer to be as low as it can be without being offensive. It should at least be a
couple hundred dollars lower than the Kelly Blue Book estimate. And you ll use the
information you gathered during the inspection to justify the lower offer. If it needs a
repair, then you ll mention that the price of the repair should be deducted from the
asking price.
Be patient. Do not get excited to buy a vehicle. Read the seller s body language. Hold
your ground. Read a book on negotiation, or many books. There is so much to this art
and usually the better negotiator gets the deal he or she wants while the other person
makes compromises. If you re too anxious to buy the vehicle or if you re too lazy to go
through the process of calling sellers and inspecting a vehicle more than once, then
you ll probably pay more. Expect to go through this process a few times before finding a
satisfying deal.
After you agree on a price, the seller will take the title to the Division of Motor Vehicles
(DMV) or a private title shop and get the title notarized for selling the vehicle. You might
use that time to go to the bank or a title loan store to get the money to pay for the
vehicle. You can arrange for the best type of payment with the seller. If you pay for it in
full from your bank account, then paying with a cashier s check made out to the seller
may be more secure than carrying cash. Then you and the seller will meet up again to
trade the payment for the title and keys. After you receive the title, you ll have to take it
to the DMV or to an independent title service shop to have a new title drawn up in your
name and get your license plate. Within the next 10 days you ll also need to call the
insurance company to have the new vehicle added to your current coverage plan or
purchase new insurance.
Finding the right vehicle for your needs at the right price will be very rewarding. If you do
your homework, put in the effort and follow the steps in this chapter, then you ll be able
to find a good vehicle that you can afford. Good luck!

77

Crawford s Guide to Beginners Auto Maintenance & Repair

www.CrawfordsAutoService.com

About the author of this chapter: Rex Kimball has been involved in internet marketing
for over seven years and he is the owner of www.MirexMarketing.com. If you re a
business owner in need of additional promotion then Mirex Marketing can help. An
ebook (or electronic book) such as the one you re currently reading is an excellent way
to promote your website and gain customer trust through honest disclosure and
consumer education. Contact Mirex Marketing today!
About the author of this ebook: Jeff Crawford has been an auto technician for over 20
years and he is the owner of Crawford s Auto Repair in Mesa, Arizona. He is a firm
believer that auto repair customers deserve to have direct contact with the technician
who fixes the vehicle. If you live near the Mesa, Arizona area, then check out
Crawford s Auto repair for all your vehicle maintenance and repair needs.

Quality you can trust!
2855 S Alma School Rd. Suite 107
Mesa, AZ 85210
480-201-0740
www.CrawfordsAutoService.com
crawfordsautomotive@gmail.com

78

Download the PDF of this book for free:
http://crawfordsautoservice.com/crawfords-auto-repairguide-free-ebook/

This book is also available in Kindle Format and
Paperback.

